# 2026-02-01 Project Setup

I installed emacs gemtext-mode, that should help edit these.

First question, why gemtext?  Well I find if I start thinking about a
blog, I start thinking about Hugo, or Org publish, and then I start
thinking about styling and what kind of page headers, and menus and
how to embed images and ... and then I stop.

With the gemtext I can probably just focus on writing and that's
better for a journal that will probably only be read by me anyway.
And with gemtext-mode providing some highlight, it's more or less as
good as anything else.

I wrote a page in a different blog about what I'm building. I'll port
that over later. For now, what are todays goals?

* Figure out if SBCL works on a Raspberry Pi
* Figure out if Gentoo works on a Raspberry Pi
* Get my Raspberry Pi setup with both of them.

So there is SBCL (but an old version), GCL and ECL all look like they
could be candidates.  I have no idea right now. Onto Gentoo.

Gentoo is a go. I want that because I'll be compiling my own kernel
(real time support), I don't want X or Wayland, I want a framebuffer,
etc.  Gotta be lean and mean.

So lets start with Gentoo. There is a gentoo handbook for this. I
begin now.  I have a microSD card, 128 GB, and a microSD card USB
reader device.  Music world must live in 128 GB. /dev/sda

in my boot/config.txt I have some standard stuff, but this
https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/computers/config_txt.html
might have more things for audio.

I followed these instructions https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi_Install_Guide#Overview, now to test the thing.

Alright, a few mistakes but is working now. I've got it booting, got a password set on it, and can SSH into it.  That should be enough for now.

